Hi there.
This is De de La Rue.
And welcome back.
Let's begin by looking at operators.
In this lecture, we will look at an operator in a generic sense, and we will just look at what type
or categories of operators Java supports and we will explore them furthermore, in subsequent lectures
where we will get into all of the details.
So what is an operator?
An operator is simply a symbol which performs an operation on its operations and produces a result.
For example, in this expression plus is an operator, while X and Y are its options.
So the plus operator is performing an additional operation on its appearance.
And the result of this addition is the output of this expression.
Andela supports several types of operators and you can see them here.
We already discussed assignment operator while introducing variables and it simply assigns the value
on its right to the variable on its left.
And there is nothing more to discuss about assignment operator.
And the instance of operator will be discussed later after introducing object oriented concepts like
inheritance and polymorphism.
And rest of the operators will be discussed in detail in this section.
In the follow up lectures.
Not that an operator can operate on one or two or three opponents.
If it operates on only one operand, then it is called as a unity operator.
In certain types of unity operations, a prefix notation is used.
That is, the operator appears before the operand and hence it is called as a prefix notation.
For example, here we have a unit minus operator where the minus operator appears before the variable
X to change the sign of the apparent x.
And there are also urinary operations where the operator appears after the operator.
That is a post fix notation.
And here is an example and it is called as a post increment operator where X is incremented by one,
two plus symbols form the operator here.
And if the operator operates on two operands, then it is called as binary operator.
And with binary operator, the operator appears in between the two options.
That is an in fixed notation is used.
And if the operator operates on three options, then it is called as ternary operator.
As ternary implies three.
Well, union binary operators can be represented by different kinds of symbols like plus minus and percent
and so on.
A ternary operator always uses only two symbols a question mark and a column.
And here is the generic notation along with an example.
It is also an in fixed notation, just like binary operators as the operator appears in between the
operates.
Here, the first symbol of the operator would be the question mark, while the second symbol is a column.
So there are two symbols that make up the ternary operator.
And in this example, x greater than three is the first operand, while the variable x and zero are
the second and third options respectively.
Pier X greater than three is a condition which is being tested.
And if this test succeeds, that is X is greater than three, then the expression returns X, which
is the second operand.
Otherwise it returns zero, which is the third option greater than here is a comparison operator and
we will look at it in one of the subsequent lectures.
And we will discuss ternary operator while discussing control flow statements as it can be used as an
alternative to one of the control flow statements.
So that's an introduction to operators.
Next, we will look at each of the operator types in detail.
Thank you.